Reviewer 4 of ICDL-EPIROB 2014 submission 56

Comments to the author
======================

This paper presents an interesting experiment involving two
collaborating agents - an architect and a builder, who must
communicate using a restricted n-bit channel in order to
achieve the joint activity of constructing a structure
using Lego blocks. The experiment is constructed in such a
way that communication is essential and any one agent can't
act alone. The contribution is to report on a human subject
experiment and to use the data to illustrate what kinds of
meanings the participants seemed able to and inclined to
coordinate on.

While I believe this is a good direction to pursue, and I
am with the authors on motivation, I would have expected
the paper to go further in terms of methodology and
analysis. As it stands, the main contribution of substance
are the plots on page 4, which are suggestive of what
people might be doing. Indeed, the dominant point is that
people seem to use reward signals in reinforcement form
much more than anything else and they occasionally use cues
like size, location and group but either not with much
success or otherwise sparingly. Sone of the failure cases
suggest that things like 'credit assignment' through this
n-bit interface seems hard, which is to be expected.

The authors cite a lot of work in evolutionary language
acquisition, etc., but do not appear familiar with many
other lines of work that ask the same question. For
instance, to give two rather diverse related works, the
following give rigorous theoretical characterisations of
basically the same game considered by the present paper
under discussion:
- O. Goldreich, B. Juba, M. Sudan, A theory of
goal-oriented communication, J. ACM 59(2), 2012.
- B. Skyrms, Signals: Evolution, Learning, and Information,
Oxford University Press, 2012.

Hence, it is unclear to me what the primary contribution of
this paper is, in terms of what it adds to the conversation
on language evolution, learning of a language, etc. It is
an interesting experiment, and there are nuggets of
interesting suggestions in the data that comes out of it,
but there isn't a rigorous take away message or theory that
I can use in follow-up work, etc.